---
pages:
  - 269-278
aliases:
  - Episode 29
---
[8], 269-278. May: A "White Visitation" picnic by the sea (cf. opening of [part 2?](2%20-%201.md)). Pointsman thinks about the disappearance of Slothrop, lost by British Intelligence a month ago, in Zürich. He thinks, as well, about his major blunder: authorizing Harvey Speed and Floyd Perdoo to investigate Slothrop's sexual adventures in London, the ones recorded on the map (this operation being known, acronimically, as SEZ WHO). Unfortunately there is no evidence that any of his "scores"-- not even Darlene (though there _is_ a "Mrs. Quoad")--actually existed. The War over, Pointsman must confront efforts to dissolve PISCES (as well as more general tendencies to dissolve the stark polarities sustained by the War). He has begun to feel "the solitude of a Führer." Back to the sea-side, we get our first allusion to the Rossini vs. Beethoven controversy--which, we're told (presumably, here, by the narrator), will later erupt in Berlin. Pointsman, facing his various dissolutions, begins to act "a bit mental"--he's hearing a Voice. We learn, as those at "The White Visitation" have recently learned, that there really _is_ a "Schwarzkommando" operating in Germany, just as in the "fiction" created by Operation Blackwing. All this following a digression on _King Kong_. (Here, as with the Rocket [and Slothrop], the order of cause and effect seems to be getting reversed or confused: can fantasy _produce_ reality?) Edwin Treacle has contended, to his consternated colleagues, "that their feelings about blackness were tied to feelings about shit, and feelings about shit to feelings about putrefaction and death." (276) Pointsman, hallucinating, sees need to get Jessica out of the way, in order to secure control of Roger for his continuation of the War into the Post-War. "'Yang and Yin,' whispers the Voice, 'Yang and Yin. . . . '" (a Pavlovian breakdown?--a dissolution of "ideas of the opposite"?).