---
pages:
  - 249-269
aliases:
  - Episode 28
---
[7], 249-269. Begins with the information on "Imipolex G" that Slothrop has gotten (_via_ Bounce's teletype) from London. It is a plastic developed in 1939 for I.G. Farben by, of course, Laszlo Jamf. We learn "Plasticity's central canon: that chemists were no longer at the mercy of Nature." (249: cf. Walter Rathenau, [166](1%20-%2019.md); also Slothrop's Plasticman comic, [206-7](2%20-%203.md)?) A brief history of the development of plastics, into increasingly complex molecular chains, is paralleled by a brief history of the development of interlocking "arrangements" among the corporations that manufacture them. (250-51) Slothrop fantasizes a commando raid on Duncan Sandys' office at Shell Mex House, London; at the heart of it all he finds only machines, talking to one another. Returned from fantasy (?), he finds a new clue on the parts list: "S-Gerät, 11/00000"--apparently the serial number of a special model rocket, using Imipolex G, somehow, for insulation.

Slothrop comes upon (by chance?) a copy (forged?) of the London _Times_, containing an obituary, by Bloat, for Tantivy, supposedly killed in heroic action. He flees to Nice (as, we learn later, he was supposed to), going to the address on Waxwing's card. During the night he is visited by various dead and/or departed. Next day, Waxwing's agents give him new papers, a new name (Ian Scuffling), and an address in Zürich. He arrives a week later, and contacts Waxwing's representative, Semyavin. He meets (in a musical "number") various "Loonies on Leave!" (259-60) Looking for sources of information in information-specific cafés, he meets Mario Schweitar, who tells him of Jamf's death.

Schweitar offers more information for a price, but Slothrop is broke. And seeing a strange Rolls Royce in front of his hotel, Slothrop recognizes that he cannot return, that he is also homeless. Proverb #4 (262). He pawns his zoot suit and wanders. At the Odeon Cafe (which is not information-specific) he meets an Argentine anarchist, Francesco Squalidozzi, who tells of hijacking a German U-boat (with Graciela Imago Portales) to seek asylum from Peron in, yes, Germany. Why _Germany_? Squalidozzi on Argentine history: "We are obsessed with building labyrinths, where before there was open plain and sky. . . . We cannot abide that _openness_; it is terror to us." Slothrop counters: "But-but . . . that's _progress_." Squalidozzi: "In the openness of the German zone, our hope is limitless." The Argentines need a courier, unknown to their enemies. Slothrop offers to help, for enough money to pay Schweitar for his information.

Slothrop takes a plane to Geneva (in plane encountering Richard Halliburton [266]). He exchanges messages with Squalidozzi's contact, then returns to Zürich. Squalidozzi is nowhere to be found. We learn of the Slothrop family's role in Shay's Rebellion. (268) Slothrop goes out to stay at Jamf's tomb, where he take delivery of Schweitar's information: "In the weeks ahead . . . he may even have time to wish he hadn't read any of it."