---
pages:
  - 663-673
aliases:
  - Episode 66
---
[5], 663-673. "You will want cause and effect. All right." (663) Thanatz fell off the _Anubis_ in the same storm that sent Slothrop overboard (see [3: \[18\]](3%20-%2018.md), above). He was rescued by a Polish undertaker, trying (in order to make him better in his particular line of work) to get struck by lightning--seeking to "experience a singular point." After setting Thanatz ashore, he gets his wish (664-65). Thanatz then encounters a village of male homosexuals, liberated (or, as they see it, "banished") from Dora (see [3: \[11\]](3%20-%2011.md), above). They have reproduced, in their "freedom," a "phantom SS command," modelled on their fantasy of the Rocket-structure at the Mittelwerke. They are waiting for Blicero, of whom they've only heard, to be their leader. Thanatz has come to be haunted by his memories of Blicero (see [3: \[14\]](3%20-%2014.md), above). He seeks him out, however, at a nearby gasworks--recalling, meanwhile, Peter Sachsa's prewar séances (668; see [1: \[5\]](1%20-%205.md), [\[18\]](1%20-%2018.md) and [\[19\]](1%20-%2019.md), above). Thanatz is nabbed by the Russians, then freed (by mistake) by Polish guerillas. So begin his "lessons in being preterite" (668). He travels the Zone as a DP. His memory of the last rocket-firing grows clearer--which he is now (i.e., in the "present" of the close of the previous chapter) relating to the Schwarzkommando. He's coming to see that "the two children, Gottfried and Bianca, _are the same_." (672) Telling all he remembers to the assembled Erdschweinhöhlers, "he is the angel they've hoped for." They have already assembled their own rocket from scavenged fragments (cf. Mexico to Pointsman, [88](1%20-%2013.md), above?). And by the time he's done "they will all know what the Schwarzgerät was, how it was used, where the 00000 was fired from, and which way it was pointed." (673) All this brings the various Herero factions together, reconciles them. Maria has even appeared in a dream to Christian (see [3: \[21\]](3%20-%2021.md), above), saying she seeks no revenge on Ombindi.