---
pages:
  - 735-760
aliases:
  - Episode 73
---
[12], 735-760. We move from a fantasy elevator of the future (strange noises as it passes abandoned floors), through "The Lederhoseners" singing about "the beatings Mutti gave to me," to Ludwig and Thanatz--the latter explaining "Sado-anarchism" to the former (737). They have reached the Lüneberg Heath, where the Hereros are assembling the 00001 rocket. We learn the story of "the kid who hates kreplach" (737). Slothrop was to be "present at . . . _his time's assembly_"; but "he is being broken down instead, and scattered." (738. Is this a defeat, a fall? Or has Slothrop's plastic ego turned out to be, as it were, in a positive sense bio-degradable?)

Seaman Bodine looks up and sees Slothrop; he's one of the few still able to see him at all, "to hold him together, even as a concept": "_Rocketman, Rocketman_. _You poor fucker_." (740-41) He gives Slothrop a piece of a shirt soaked in the blood of John Dillinger, outside the Biograph Theater (see [368](3%20-%206.md), [516](3%20-%2020.md), above; and cf. the cloth with which St. Veronica \[see, for instance, [1: \[7\]](1%20-%207.md), above] wiped Christ's face?). Later, Bodine began, "helpless, in shame, to let Slothrop go." We learn of Slothrop's last appearance--on the cover of the only album released by an early-'60's rock group, the Fool (742). Dzabajev (earlier, a sidekick of Tchitcherine, see [3: \[9\]](3%20-%209.md), above) and his friends are at a convention of village idiots. They are shooting _wine_--defying gravity with a "wine rush" (743). Which, apparently, sets off the series of titled sub-chapters that conclude the book: "The Occupation of Mingeborough" (744): back in Massachusetts, a memory which is also a look into the future; "it may be too late to get home." "Back in Der Platz" (745-6): at Säure's, Gustav and Anton have converted kazoos into hashish pipes; Gustav screws a light bulb into his--turns out to be our friend, Byron. We're told about "the movie under the rug," in which various irreversible processes are reversed. "Weissmann's Tarot" (746-49): "He is the father you will never quite manage to kill. The Oedipal situation in the Zone these days is terrible" (747). Weissmann's present condition is set forth by the Tower, over whose significance there is considerable debate. Others of his cards are analyzed. "The Last Green and Magenta" (749): on the Heath. "The Horse" (749): the last horse in waiting to be sacrificed (cf. [337](3%20-%205.md), above?). "Isaac" (749-50): at the moment he was about to be sacrificed by his father, Abraham, Isaac saw the antechambers of the Throne.

"Pre-Launch" (750-51): Weissmann has bound and dressed the boy prettily, before placing him in the Rocket; "the 00000 is the womb into which Gottfried returns." (750; i.e., we are now learning directly what happened on "the Heath"). The Rocket is the Oven (see [1: \[14\]](1%20-%2014.md), above). And Gottfried himself is the "Schwarzgerät." "Hardware" (751): Gottfried is encased in Imipolex. There is an earphone for communications from Weissmann, but there is no return channel. "Chase Music" (751-53): various aging super-heroes (e.g., Superman, The Lone Ranger, Philip Marlowe) begin arriving "too late." "He [i.e., Pointsman] actually misses the dogs." He has missed his chance. "He'll be left only with Cause and Effect, and the rest of his sterile armamentarium . . . his mineral corridors do not shine." "Countdown" (753-54): the rocket countdown was actually first invented for a movie, _Die Frau in Mond_ (1929; cf. Ilse's dreams, [3: \[11\]](3%20-%2011.md), above?) by Fritz Lang. It is interpreted by "Kabbalist spokesman Steve Edelman:" it "appears to be serial, [but] it actually conceals the Tree of Life, which must be apprehended all at once, together, in parallel" (cf. Leni Pökler to Franz, [159](1%20-%2019.md), above?).

"Strung Into the Apollonian Dream" (754): Gottfried waits in the Rocket, gazing at his Imipolex shroud, lulled by the familiar smell. "Come, wake," it says. "All is well." "Orpheus puts Down Harp" (754-57): Richard M. Zhlubb (cf. the source of the epigraph to Part 4?), manager of the Orpheus Theater, Los Angeles, complains to "our" reporter about harmonica-playing in movie lines. Steve Edelman is one of the principal trouble-makers. Zhlubb takes our reporter for a drive in his black Volkswagen, with its special laugh-track cassette system. They pass a funeral (JFK? RFK?). Zhlubb has a fantasy of being smothered, while driving, by a dry-cleaning bag: "a plastic shroud." They hear a siren, but "the sound is greater than police." (cf. the opening of _Gravity's Rainbow_?) "The Clearing" (757-58): the Rocket is launched. "Ascent" (758-60): Gottfried, in the rocket, moves past Brenschluss, rushes into growing whiteness. "Descent" (760): in the Orpheus Theater the screen has just gone blank. The rocket is poised, in its last delta-t above the roof of the theater. For our last moment's diversion we are offered a hymn, written by William Slothrop. "Now everybody--."