---
pages:
  - 640-655
aliases:
  - Episode 64
---
[3], 640-655. In Thuringia, at night, Pfc. Eddie Pensiero, "amphetimine enthusiast" and expert reader of shivers, is giving a haircut to his colonel. An overhead bulb is kept lighted by a hand generator, cranked by Paddy ("Electro") McGonigle, an expert reader of strobing frequencies. They hear somebody "playing blues on a mouth harp" in the dark (624; another Slothropian "appearance"?). The colonel is from Kenosha, Wisconsin (cf. [1: \[10\]](1%20-%2010.md), above?). We shift (in the colonel's fantasy) to a dialogue between "Skippy" and "Mister Information"--about "Happyville," the "pointsman," the persistence of the War in which, still, "the right people are dying." (644-46) Then "Skippy" (turning back, more or less, into the colonel) meets Dr. Jamf. Then we learn that the bulb run by Paddy's generator is the _same_ bulb that Franz Pökler slept under at Nordhausen (see [426-7](3%20-%2011.md), above): "This bulb is _immortal_"! Which brings us to "The Story of Byron the Bulb" (647-55), told to "Skippy" by "Mister Information." Byron's early dreams of power set him against "Phoebus"--the agency of the international light-bulb cartel which "fixes the prices and determines the operational lives of all the bulbs in the world." After 1000 hours, with a Phoebus hit-woman on her way to get him, Byron is bulb-snatched, and dispatched on a series of travels too bizarre to detail here. We learn, meanwhile, about the working arrangements between Phoebus and "The Grid." (654) Byron survives, but his early ambition has been thwarted; he "is condemned to go on forever, knowing the truth and powerless to change anything." (655; cf. Pirate's hopes for "Creative Paranoia," [4: \[2\]](4%20-%202.md), above?) The story over, Lazslo Jamf ("Mr. Information"?) walks away; "the colonel is left alone in Happyville." Then, his throat is wholly exposed to Eddie's razor, to the strobing of the bulb.