---
pages:
  - 706-717
aliases:
  - Episode 69
---
[8], 706-717. The Gross Suckling Conference (named after the inn where it was held): Ensign Morituri (see [3: \[16\]](3%20-%2016.md), above), Carroll Eventyr (see [1: \[5\]](1%20-%205.md) and [\[18\]](1%20-%2018.md) above), Thomas Gwenhidwy (see [1: \[20\]](1%20-%2020.md), above), and Roger Mexico. They deduce the firing _direction_ of the 00000 rocket--true north; but where was it fired _from_? Roger recalls (another flashback shifting into present tense) Jessica telling him, in Cuxhaven, of her decision to marry Jeremy. Jeremy, at lunch, invites him to dinner, at the home of a former Krupp manager, Stefan Utgarthaloki. Roger brings along Seaman Bodine, who's wearing an extraordinary zoot suit (cf. [2: \[6\]](2%20-%206.md)), above?). Arriving, they notice four musicians--including Gustav and Anton (see [3: \[12\]](3%20-%2012.md), above)--scheduled to play Haydn's suppressed "Kazoo" quartet (711-12). Slothrop, we learn, "has become one plucked albatross. Plucked, hell--_stripped_. Scattered, all over the Zone. It's doubtful if he can ever be 'found' again, in the conventional sense of 'positively identified and detained.'" (712) We learn about the Counterforce's abiding awe of "the man"--who "has a branch office in each of our brains." (712) At table, seeing a huge barbecue pit at the end of the dining room, and realizing that they themselves are to be the "Überrashungbraten" ("surprise roast"), Roger and Bodine proceed to gross out the other guests by inventing disgusting, alliterative menu entries (e.g., "_menstrual marmalade_," "_clot casserole_"). "Commando Connie" Flamp, war correspondent, joins the game ("_discharge dumplings_"), as do the musicians ("wart waffles," "puke pancakes, with sweat syrup"). The others begin to vomit uncontrollably. Jessica leaves with Jeremy. "Does Roger have a second of pain right here? Yes. Sure. You would too." (716) Then Bodine and Roger, followed by the musicians, escape--as Connie continues the game alone.