---
pages:
  - 626-640
aliases:
  - Episode 63
---
[2], 626-640. Roger Mexico (been a long time, hasn't it?) is driving on the Autobahn. He recalls Jessica's last visit to "The White Visitation," his own need (which, however, wanes at times) to do "what's right" about Slothrop--whom Jessica regards mainly as a monster. The war over, Jessica was leaving--and left, to go to Cuxhaven, with Beaver (see [1: \[16\]](1%20-%2016.md), above). Milton Gloaming (see [1: \[5\]](1%20-%205.md), above), back from the Zone, filled Roger in on "the great struggle for the IG's intelligence machinery" (630), to which Slothrop seemed quite important. Mexico arrives (still a flashback here, but now in the present tense) at Twelfth House, to confront Pointsman. Geza Rózsavögli (a "White Visitation" veteran) is there, in the reception room; backed into Pointsman's "shadow-corner," he enters a bizarre Hawaii fantasy (634-5; a Slothropian "appearance"?--note the language, and cf. Slothrop's shirt, [2: \[1\]](2%20-%201.md), above?). Mexico finds Pointsman in the office of Clive Mossmoon (see [1: \[5\]](1%20-%205.md), [2: \[4\]](2%20-%204.md), above), where a meeting is in progress. He leaps on the conference table, and pisses all over the assembled elite--except Pointsman, whom he curses, elaborately. Then, after escaping, he goes to Pirate's, to be told about "Creative Paranoia," the need to combat the "They-system" with a "We-system." "Well," replies Roger, "you're playing Their game, then." (638) Sir Stephen Dodson-Truck is there (see [2: \[3\]](2%20-%203.md), [3: \[24\]](3%20-%2024.md), above); we learn about the fate of his wife, Nora (see [1: \[18\]](1%20-%2018.md), above): she has identified with Gravity, and become victim to practical jokes from her friends. (639) Thomas Gwenhidwy (see [1: \[17\]](1%20-%2017.md) and [\[20\]](1%20-%2020.md), above) is also there. And in spite of his doubts, Roger joins them. Which is why (back to this chapter's opening "present") Roger is on the Autobahn, driving into Cuxhaven.