---
pages:
  - 674-700
aliases:
  - Episode 67
---
[6], 674-700. (This long, bizarre chapter may give us [see, for instance, 682, below] what's left of Slothrop's "point of view," since his "dispersal.") We are in the Raketen-Stadt, "where the _Father_ \["Broderick"--see [3: \[1\]](3%20-%201.md), above] plots constantly to kill his son." Tyrone sets out to rescue the "Radiant Hour," stolen from the day's 24 by "colleagues of the Father, for sinister reasons of their own." (674) The "Floundering Four"--Tyrone, Myrtle Miraculous (she can perform miracles), Maximillian ("a Negro in a pearl-gray zoot suit and Inverness cape"), and Marcel ("a mechanical chess-player") set out to combat the "Paternal Peril." Each has a flaw (cf. Dorothy's three companions in _The Wizard of Oz_?). Song, "How-dy neighbor, how-dy pard!" (677; cf. various details to [760](4%20-%2012.md), below?) They gradually infiltrate their own audience (or someone else's). Maximillian is reading "the Closet Intellectual Book, _The Wisdom of the Great Kamikaze Pilots_, with illustrations by Walt Disney." Then, as parts of the "nonstop revue," watched by the now-infiltrated-audience, various sketches. "The Low Frequency Listener" (681-2): Slothrop, for reasons he can't remember, is trying to get through to the Argentine anarchists. He's at Magdeburg, site of a low-frequency antenna. He's having trouble remembering his parents, "as Broderick progresses into Perilous Pop and Nalline into ssshhhghh . . ." (682) Next (in the "revue"), "Mom Slothrop's Letter to Ambassador Kennedy" (682): she asks, familiarly and drunkenly, for news of Tyrone. Then, "On the Phrase 'Ass Backwards'" (683-87): Säure Bummer, talking to Slothrop, attacks the illogic of this phrase. We learn about the umlaut-deficient robbery victim (female) who, meaning to shout "Hübsch Räuber ("cute-looking robber"), instead came out with "Hubschrauber" ("helicopter," which had not yet been invented) (683-4). Seaman Bodine, after defending "Ass Backwards," sings "My Doper's Cadenza" (685-6). Then (still the "revue"), "Shit 'n' Shinola" (687-8): their color is contrasted with the white of toilets--"Odorless and Official Death." Next, "An Incident in the Transvestites' Toilet" (688-90): Slothrop's dressed in drag, as Fay Wray. An ape hands him a sodium bomb, which explodes when flushed down the toilet by an Asian--also in drag, as Margaret O'Brien. Next, "A Moment of Fun with Takeshi and Ichizo, the Komical Kamikazes" (690-92): they keep learning from "old Kenosha (cf. [1: \[10\]](1%20-%2010.md) and [4: \[3\]](4%20-%203.md), above?) the loony radarman" that no American targets are within range. Then, "Streets" (692-94): Slothrop finds (he doesn't know where) a newspaper fragment--"a wirephoto of a giant white cock, dangling in the sky downward out of a white pubic bush" (cf. [626](4%20-%201.md), above?) under a partial headline: "MB DRO / ROSHI (cf. [480](3%20-%2016.md), above? But NB., also, "Roshi" is the title of the highest Zen master.) Then, "Listening to the Toilet" (694-97): on waiting to hear the sound of the toilet shut off (by Them), waiting for brief cessations of "the roaring of the sun," in towns which turn out to be "on the borders of _Time Zones_"--was it "Kenosha, Wisconsin?" (696)--where the Kenosha Kid is caught in a "sound-shadow" (cf. [4: \[2\]](4%20-%202.md), above?). Then, "Witty Repartee" (697-98): more of Ichizo and Takeshi, then some information on the Hotchkiss machine gun. Then, "Heart-to-Heart, Man-to-Man" (698-99): "Pop" and "Tyrone" discuss the latter's growing "electrofreak" addiction to "screwing in," "waves." Next (and last), "Some Characteristics of Imipolex G" (699-700): "the first plastic that is actually _erectile_." (Hmmmmm?) Various theories about the necessary stimulus: "a thin matrix of wires," "a beam-scanning system . . . analogous to the well-known video electron stream," or projection of an "electronic 'image,' analogous to a motion picture."