---
pages:
  - 397-433
aliases:
  - Episode 40
---
[11], 397-433. (This long chapter, consisting mostly of one long recollection, narrated in the past tense, tells the story of Franz Pökler--see [1: \[18\]](1%20-%2018.md) and [\[19\]](1%20-%2019.md), [3: \[1\]](3%20-%201.md), above. cf. the story of Franz's loss of Leni and Ilse to the story of Roger and Jessica?) It was his arousal from seeing _Alpdrücken_ that inspired the conception of Franz and Leni's daughter, Ilse (cf. Ilse, therefore, to Margherita's daughter, Bianca, conceived during the _shooting_ of _Alpdrucken_?). "_That's how it happened_," he reflects. "_A Film_. . . . _Isn't that what they made of my child_, _a film_?" (398) Franz is now (in "present") at the ruin of an amusement park-city, Zwölfkinder (cf. Disneyland?), waiting for Ilse's annual summertime return. He recalls his fear of the political demonstrations (the street) to which he lost Leni; he recalls an argument they had over the meaning of the Rocket, which he has come in his way (and out of his fear) to worship (400). He turned to the Rocket, in earnest, to pull himself together after Leni left him. He recalls the "electro-mysticism" of Kurt Mondaugen (see [1: \[19\]](1%20-%2019.md), above). His memories of early rocket days also include Weissmann (Blicero) and Enzian. He moved to Peenemünde (where rockets were tested) in 1937, but he couldn't quite forget his old Berlin self; he was torn between "personal identity and impersonal salvation." (406) We learn of the connection linking the Rocket, film, and calculus (407). Then, one summer, "Ilse" appeared at his cubicle, for a visit, reporting that she and Leni were living at an SS "reeducation" camp. Pökler dreamed about the history of Friedrich August Kekulé, father of organic chemistry (410-13), and about Kekulé's dream: a serpent with its tail in its mouth. We learn how this dream was misused by the System, as the foundation for understanding the benzine ring. All this is lectured on by "Pökler's old prof," Laszlo Jamf. Ilse's fantasy was to live on the moon. Then one evening, returning from work, Pökler found her gone. He was crushed: "Victim in a Vacuum," song (414-15). Mondaugen advised that he wait, rather than rebel; and Pökler agreed.

As war approached Pökler became more enmeshed in the life of the Rocket (his life is often recalled, indeed, in terms appropriate to the rocket's flight). "It is the grim phoenix," we are told, "which creates its own holocaust . . . delibeate _resurrection_. . . the planet of National Socialism." (415) The next summer, again apparently arranged by Weissmann, there was another visit from "Ilse" (as before, he could not be certain it was she). This time he was granted a two-week furlough; they went to Zwölfkinder, whose exhibits recapitulate many motifs from earlier portions of _Gravity's Rainbow_. Pökler fantasized incest and escape (420-21), but instead accepted "Ilse" as his daughter: "It was the real moment of conception, in which, years too late, he became her father." (421) Then, the two weeks over, she disappeared again. And "so it has gone for the six years since," his need of her used by Weissmann (cf. Pointsman/Pudding/Katje, [2:\[4\]](2%20-%204.md), above?) to keep Pökler in line. He compares her regularly repeated appearances to the regular repetition of frames in film: she is "the moving image of a daughter." (422)

He was transferred, in 1944, to Nordhausen, where he dreamed about a light bulb (426-27: cf. "The Story of Byron the Bulb," [4: \[3\]](4%20-%203.md), below?). He became increasingly aware of the concentration camp, Dora, next to Nordhausen. Which, he learned, was where "Ilse" was imprisoned. Then Weissmann, whom Pökler had not seen since leaving Peenemünde (though he had heard rumors of a break with Enzian), appeared to get Pökler to work on modifications for a special rocket, the 00000. His job was to produce an insulated plastic fairing, to contain something called a "Schwarzgerät." He never saw Weissmann again; but his reward for this special work (apparently) was a letter from Weissmann, promising that "Ilse" would be freed, that she would meet him at Zwölfkinder (which is why he is there "now," waiting for her). With defeat approaching, and the Mittelwerke being evacuated, he finally got into Dora, next door. He was appalled at what he saw: endless stacks of bodies, the others near death, emaciated, starving. Onto the finger of "a woman lying, a random woman," he slipped his gold wedding ring.