---
pages:
  - 433-437
aliases:
  - Episode 41
---
[12], 433-447. Slothrop and Margherita Erdmann have come to Berlin. Slothrop, awake alone at night, begins to lose touch with his quest, to flirt with "anti-paranoia, where nothing is connected to anything \[cf. _The Waste Land_, lines 301-302?], a condition not many of us can bear for long. . . . Either They have put him here for a reason, or he's just here. He isn't sure that he wouldn't, actually, rather have that _reason_ . . . ." (434) Leaving Margherita asleep, he takes five kilos of the hashish liberated from Potsdam (keeping the depleted sixth kilo for himself) to the Chicago Bar (see [3: \[6\]](3%20-%206.md), above), then to Säure Bummer's cellar. It is abandoned, but he finds a white knight (symbol of Der Springer), made out of plastic (guess which kind?), with a message from Säure. He finally, at dawn, finds Bummer, and delivers the hash. His task accomplished, Slothrop retires to a mattress with Trudi, for an episode of polymorphous perversity--he "does not feel obliged to have a hardon"--and, finally, _nasal sex_! (439) We learn about the ongoing debate about the relative merits of Beethoven (supported by Gustav) and Rossini (supported by Säure (439ff.). They have just learned of the death of Anton Webern, shot (by "accident"?) by an American soldier, in Vienna. Säure and Gustav engage ("jointly"?) in a grass-tasting ritual (442). Slothrop, as Military Police break down the door, escapes; he returns to Margherita, who, frightened and angered by his absence, proceeds to cry all day. As time passes, she is consoled, really, only by whippings, self-abasements, in which Slothrop, despite misgivings, participates: "Whatever it is with her, he's catching it." He dreams of a woman fucked by a multitude of animals; in death (witnessed by "Old Squalidozzi, ploughman of the deep") she becomes a figure of abundant fertility. (446-7)