---
pages:
  - 549-557
aliases:
  - Episode 54
---
[25], 549-557. Slothrop, wearing Tchitcherine's uniform (see [3: \[20\]](3%20-%2020.md), above), is now walking alone in the Zone. "The Nationalities are on the move." The potato fields have been stripped by the SS, to make alcohol for the rockets. Slothrop dreams about Tantivy (551-2). He is becoming sensitive to the presence of animals, trees--which his family made money cutting down, for paper. "That's really insane," Slothrop says to himself (553). We are given his "Partial List of Wishes on Evening Stars for This Period " (cf. [760](4%20-%2012.md), below?), and we learn of his meeting with a fat kid, Ludwig, who's looking for his lost lemming, Ursula (553; cf. the racial suicide program of the Empty Ones?). Slothrop reassures Ludwig (cf. [3: \[10\]](3%20-%2010.md), above?) and joins him in his search. As they look for Ursula, Slothrop thinks about his "first American ancestor William," a dissenter from "the Wintrop machine" (cf. Amy Sprue, [329](3%20-%204.md), above?). William fled from Boston to the Berkshires, where he raised pigs (cf. [3: \[28\]](3%20-%2028.md), below?) with his son John. (NB. Nathaniel Hawthorne's first American ancestor was also named William, and also had a son named John. Is it relevant that the family whose history provides the subject of Hawthorne's _House of the Seven Gables_ is named "Pyncheon"?) William also wrote a theological treatise, burned in Boston, entitled _On Preterition_--which argued for the importance of "the Preterite, the many God passes over when he chooses a few for salvation . . . without whom there'd be no elect." (555) Because of orthodox hostility to this work, he moved back to England. "Could he have been the fork in the road America never took, the singular point she jumped the wrong way from? . . . It seems to Tyrone Slothrop that there might be a route back" (556; cf. Enzian, [525](3%20-%2021.md), above?), _via_ the temporary anarchy of the Zone. Slothrop gets separated from Ludwig in a town near the sea, when they chance upon--of all people--Major Duane Marvy, warming himself in front of a fire (see [3: \[1\]](3%20-%201.md), [\[2\]](3%20-%202.md), and [\[4\]](3%20-%204.md), above).