---
pages:
  - 383-390
aliases:
  - Episode 37
---
[8], 383-390. Cut to the hijacked U-boat of the Argentine anarchists (see [2: \[7\]](2%20-%207.md), above, Squalidozzi--remember?). We learn the story behind Squalidozzi's disappearance from Zürich. He was pursued by British Military Intelligence (Slothrop's Rolls Royce). He came upon a group of zoot-suited gangsters, Blodgett Waxwing's people, watching a Bob Steele Western in an abandoned harmonica factory, and meets Gerhardt von Göll ("Der Springer"), a German filmmaker (who made the Schwarzkommando film for Operation Blackwing--see [1: \[14\]](1%20-%2014.md), above). He now offers to make a film of _Martin Fierro_, an epic whose gaucho hero is regarded by the anarchists as a saint. This has now become the major project of the U-boat anarchists, but there is a problem: will they shoot only part one, or will they also do part two, in which the hero sells out? There is a fantasy of a scene from the (as yet unmade) film: Fierro's withdrawal from General Roca's attempt to exterminate the pampa Indians (cf. all the other genocidal massacres thus far: Dodoes, Hereros, Central Asian "natives"?). We learn about von Göll's connections with IG Farben, with Laszlo Jamf, about his best known film, the "immortal Alpdrücken." His interest in _Martin Fierro_ stems mainly from the chance it offers to shoot a scene of a singing duel (387--cf. [3: \[5\]](3%20-%205.md), above?). The plan, then: to get to the Lüneberg Heath, meet von Göll (who will arrive separately), and shoot the movie there. The U-boat fires a torpedo at the U.S.S. _John E. Badass_ (Seaman Bodine's ship); but it misses, apparently because Bodine has added Oneirine ("Laszlo Jamf's celebrated intoxicant") to the coffee.