---
pages:
  - 457-468
aliases:
  - Episode 43
---
[14], 457-468. Slothrop, still as Rocketman, and Greta are heading for Swinemünde--he to find the Schwarzgerät, she to find her daughter, Bianca, who's supposed to be with "a yachtful of refugees." They come to Bad Karma (can you find it on a map?). Margherita flees at the sight of a woman in black, one whom Slothrop "could have ignored, passed over." (458) Some time after Greta's reappearance, her flight remaining unexplained, they watch the arrival of the yacht, _Anubis_ (cf. the jackal-headed Egyptian dead god, worshipped to placate tomb-ravaging jackals?). Greta goes on board but Slothrop, hesitating, falls in the water. To keep from sinking he slips out of his Rocketman outfit (cf. the ending of Melville's _White-Jacket_?). He finally gets aboard, though, helped through a porthole by Stefania Procalowska, the wife of the yacht's owner, Antonio. She tells Slothrop about the scene in _Alpdrücken_, cut from the release print, during the filming of which Bianca was conceived: the gang-rape of Margherita by a horde of black-hooded "jackal men" (461). She also mentions "Karel," and Margherita's husband, Miklos Thanatz ("Thanatz" being the Egyptian god of intelligence or learning--but cf., also, "thanatos"?). During the war, Stefania continues, Margherita and Thanatz had a touring sado-masochist pornography show, which entertained SS troops at concentration camps and rocket sites.

Her story over, Stefania gives Slothrop some evening clothes, which "fit perfectly." He proceeds to the bar, where the assembled company sings "Welcome Aboard!" (462-3) In the midst of what seems to be an ongoing orgy, Slothrop catches sight of Bianca, who is eleven or twelve, "a knockout." A woman tells how Margherita, meeting Wimpe in Berlin (see [3: \[5\]](3%20-%205.md), above), discovered her now favorite drug, Oneirine (developed--remember?--by Laszlo Jamf; see [3: \[8\]](3%20-%208.md), above--and NB.: "oneiric" means "of or relating to dreams"). Slothrop then meets Thanatz, who describes witnessing the "Max Weber charisma" of the rocket, which "the State bureaucracy could never routinize." (464) Thanatz also remembers a boy he saw at "the Heath" (which he visited with Margherita and the S/M show): "Gottfried. God's peace, which I trust he's found." (465; see [1: \[14\]](1%20-%2014.md), above.) He begins to describe Blicero's breakdown and the "last day" (465), but he's interrupted by Margherita and Bianca, who go into their own S/M act. The crowd is so smitten with this act that they form a circle of sorts, held together by some pretty complex (covalent?) sexual bonding (467; cf. Kekulé's benzine ring, [410-13](3%20-%2011.md), above?). Everybody comes, except for a "jap liaison man" who just watches. As the orgy continues, the _Anubis_--a golden jackal under its bowsprit--heads toward Swinemünde.