---
pages:
  - 336-359
aliases:
  - Episode 34
---
[5], 336-359. "The Zone is in full summer." Cut to Tchitcherine, who "is more metal than anything else." He has two missions in the Zone. Official: to recover rockets and hardware for the Soviets. Private: to annihilate Enzian (his half brother) and the Schwarzkommando. We then cut to his past in Kirghiz ("the town looked like a Wild West movie"), where his assignment was to enforce the NTA (New Turkic Alphabet) on the unlettered natives (cf. this linguistic imperialism to the organic theories of language propounded by Sir Stephen Dodson-Truck [inverted "Turk"?] [2: \[3\]](2%20-%203.md), above?). We learn about Galina, "the schoolmarm," and about Dzaqyp Qulan, the "native" schoolteacher, whose father was killed in the Kirghiz massacre of 1916 (cf. Fran van der Groov and the Dodoes, [1: \[14\]](1%20-%2014.md), above? the Herero massacre, [1: \[14\]](1%20-%2014.md), above? the attitude toward Indians implied by all the Western lingo here? Vietnam?). We learn, too, about Tchitcherine's horse, Snake, from the United States. There are various rumors (this flashback, like many in the book, is shifting into the present tense) about the reasons for Tchitcherine's banishment to Central Asia: an alliance with a "Soviet Courtesan"; an acquaintance with Wimpe, a German salesman for IG, with a special interest in "opium alkaloids and their many variations." Cut from this to the Chinese swamper, Chu Piang, with whom Tchitcherine smokes opium. Then we hear Wimpe discourse on Morphine research, on Laszlo Jamf (348). Or has Tchitcherine (as _he_ thinks) been banished to Kirghiz (and Chekovian longing for return to the city) because of Enzian? We learn how Tchitcherine's sailor-father fled the horror of loading coal in a Southwest African port ("a conspiracy of carbon . . . he could smell Death in it") to the "honest blackness" of Enzian's mother (351). We then learn, in chaotic detail, about factional infighting at the NTA plenary session, and about the similarity of its committees to Soviet "Committees on molecular structure." (355) Tchitcherine and Dzaqyp Qulan ride into a village in time to hear a singing duel (cf. [387](3%20-%208.md)?)--and to hear an old aqyn (wandering singer) sing (we're into the Oral Tradition here, no writing) about seeing the "Kirghiz Light/In a place where words are unknown." Following his instructions the Russian and his sidekick travel to It, but Tchitcherine's "heart was never ready." "But in the Zone . . . the Rocket is waiting. He will be drawn the same way again."