---
pages:
  - 473-482
aliases:
  - Episode 45
---
[16], 473-482. Climbing a ladder, Slothrop meets the "jap liaison man," Ensign Morituri (which doesn't mean much in Japanese, but cf. Longfellow's poem, "Morituri Salutamus"?: "'O Caesar, we who are about to die [Morituri]/Salute you!' was the gladiators' cry/In the arena, standing face to face/With death and with the Roman populace"). He tells "Ensign Morituri's Story" (474-9), which is, however, narrated in the third person. After failing to make it in Hollywood, Margherita returned to Germany. She was becoming convinced that she was part Jewish. She ended up in Bad Karma, with one Sigmund, for the mud cure--this famous mud being "hot and greasy with traces of radium." (475) Morituri, also visiting Bad Karma, learned from Sigmund of Margherita's strange absences; curious, he took to following her. One night he discovered she had been murdering Jewish children ("Little piece of Jewish shit. Don't try to run away from me."), burying them in the mud. Morituri rescued the last victim, but he did not report Margherita to the police. Next day, Margherita and Sigmund left Bad Karma.

His story over, Morituri tells of his longing to return to his home and family, when the Pacific war is over, "never to leave Hiroshima again" (480; cf. [693](4%20-%206.md), below). Slothrop decides he has to get back to Bianca; but he learns she's disappeared, and Margherita has locked herself in the head. After finding a piece of Bianca's frock in the engine room (cf. [3: \[22\]](3%20-%2022.md), below?), Slothrop confronts Margherita. And then, listening to _her_ story (which is given to us, in a different form, in the chapter that follows), he is overcome by nausea (cf. the beginning of the Sodium Amytal fantasy in [1: \[10\]](1%20-%2010.md), above?).