---
pages:
  - 610-616
aliases:
  - Episode 61
---
[32], 610-616. Tchitcherine has traced Weissmann's rocket battery to the Lüneberg Heath; but what he has found there is the set of _Martin Fierro_ (see [3: \[8\]](3%20-%208.md), above), which he's never read. But the singing-duel is now being filmed, and he recognizes its similarity to the one he saw in Central Asia, on the way to the Kirghiz Light. He knows that Weissmann in fact fired the 00000 rocket nearby. But now he must wait; "there is a counterforce," he believes, "in the Zone." He hopes he might meet Enzian here. Felipe--one of the Argentine anarchists involved in the filming of _Martin Fierro_--meditates (in the cinematic terms that have become popular in the group) on the true nature of history (612-13). This set, we learn, will remain as a permanent village. And we learn about new, strange villages springing up in the Zone, including the Hund-Stadt, populated by trained killer-dogs who, since their masters have died or disappeared, cannot be pacified. A study on how to induce factionalism (master-cults) among these dogs, in order to facilitate the re-taking of the village, has been contracted to Pointsman. He is now in official disgrace, since the castrating of Marvy. Clive Mossmoon (see [1: \[5\]](1%20-%205.md) and [2: \[4\]](2%20-%204.md), above) and Sir Marcus Scammony discuss what is to be done about Pointsman--and about "the American" (i.e., Slothrop). Sir Marcus's "idle and bitchy faggotry" is contrasted with the loving homosexuality of the World War I battlefields (cf. Pudding's memories, [2: \[4\]](2%20-%204.md), above?). "Homosexuality in high places is just a carnal afterthought now, and the real and only fucking is done on paper." (616)