---
pages:
  - 281-295
aliases:
  - Episode 30
---
[1], 281-295. Early morning (cf. dawn openings of [parts 1](1%20-%201.md) and [2](2%20-%201.md)?): Slothrop arrives at Nordhausen. He recalls meeting his first African (Enzian), and Major Duane Marvy. The "plot" [which will thicken, then, strangely, thin]: Schweitar's information on Imipolex G (see [2: \[7\]](2%20-%207.md), above) points to Franz Pökler (see [1: \[18\]](1%20-%2018.md) and [\[19\]](1%20-%2019.md), above), who came to the Mittelwerke, an underground rocket factory at Nordhausen, in 1944. The Shell file on Jamf points to Lyle Bland of Boston, to Hugo Stinnes (a German financier), and to a banknote contract with the Slothrop Paper Company. All this recalls to Slothrop a smell ("_the breath of the Forbidden Wing_" [presumably Imipolex G, involved in Jamf's experiments on "Infant Tyrone"]); it also produces an erection. Bland ("Uncle Lyle") apparently sold his interest in the "Schwarzknabe enterprise" (next to this entry are the initials, "T.S.") to Grössli Chemical (later Psychochemie AG). From all this Slothrop concludes that his father Broderick ("B.S.") "sold" him to Bland, for Jamf's experiments, in return for money for Slothrop's education; and Slothrop's apparently been under surveillance ever since.

Slothrop--travelling in the Zone as a British journalist, Ian Scuffling--also recalls Marvy, on top of a moving railroad car, warning him about "niggers" in the next car, Southwest African rocket troops (the Scwarzkommando), who have now joined together, heading for Nordhausen. He then recalls Oberst Enzian appearing, and throwing Marvy off the train.

Cut back to "present," Nordhausen, morning. Slothrop meets Geli Tripping (say it out loud), an apprentice witch, part of the "harem" ("a girl in every rocket-town in the Zone") of Soviet officer, Vaslav Tchitcherine. After sex he begins worrying the Russian is about to appear, but the noise he hears is only Geli's owl, Wernher. It turns out she knows about the 00000 rocket, and the "Schwarzgerät." Proverb #5 (292). She claims the Schwarzgerät is for sale, in Swinemünde. Despite misgivings, Slothrop stays the night.