---
pages:
  - 591-610
aliases:
  - Episode 60
---
[31], 591-610. Doctors Muffage and Spontoon are in Cuxhaven. They're working for Pointsman--who, Muffage thinks, is "_losing his grip_." And they're looking for Slothrop--who, they learn from a British corporal, is in town, wearing a pig suit. At an alcohol dump, the fuel now fuelling a party, Seaman Bodine (see [3: \[6\]](3%20-%206.md) and [\[8\]](3%20-%208.md), above) is promoting a runciple spoon fight. Slothrop's nearby, in a trailer, still wearing his pig suit. As the police close in he escapes with one Albert Krypton. They find Bodine who--the runciple spoon fight over--flees with them, the MP's (and Muffage and Spontoon) in hot pursuit. They hijack a Red Cross canteen truck, which takes them to a bar-casino-opium den-whorehouse, "Putzi's," where Slothrop hopes to meet up with Der Springer. Bodine introduces Slothrop to a whore named "Solange," who offers to take him to the baths. She explains to a by now very paranoid Slothrop that the Zone is not one Plot but, as he reflects, "a network of all plots," which "may yet carry him to freedom." (603) As they head for the baths Bodine goes off to make a cocaine delivery--to, as it turns out, Major Marvy. Marvy then gets set up with a Spanish whore (a victim of Franco), Manuela, who hangs his uniform in a closet and leads him to the baths. An MP raid is suddenly announced; Marvy, fleeing, finds only Slothrop's pig costume in the changing room. He puts it on, and is then captured. He is taken off in an ambulance, in which Muffage and Spontoon--thinking he's Slothrop--remove his testicles, for Pointsman. Marvy, too, as "Slothrop," is to be taken back to Pointsman.

Meanwhile, back at Putzi's, Slothrop is asleep in bed with Solange, dreaming of Zwölfkinder and Bianca. "Solange," who is in fact Leni Pökler, is also dreaming--of _her_ Bianca, Ilse. "Leni's early dream for her is coming true. She will not be used." (610) Upstairs, one Möllner explains to Bodine that von Göll is very busy; there are, in any case, no papers (the discharge von Göll promised to Slothrop--see [3: \[22\]](3%20-%2022.md), above) for the sailor's friend.